---
layout: post
title:  "Radiative Heat Transfer and Inverse problems in optical, thermal and energy systems"
date:   2018-01-16
excerpt: ""
image: "/images/pic02.jpg"
category: research_topic
---

## Radiative Heat Transfer and Inverse problems in optical, thermal and energy systems
### Radiative Heat Transfer: 
Radiative heat transfer defines the ballistic transfer of energy via electromagnetic waves and constitutes the major main energy mechanism of our planet.  Moreover, radiative transfer is the basic transfer mechanism that is capable of defining other transfer mechanisms such as diffusion in smaller scales.  Therefore, understanding radiative transfer is not only important for high temperature or energy systems, but also for aerospace applications, nano-materials, environmental systems and thermal processing for manufacturing.  Along the years, we have developed the modeling capability for far field radiative transfer, via solution of the radiative transfer equation considering absorbing, emitting and anisotrpically scattering, spectral systems using various methods including Monte Carlo method.  More recently, my research have been focusing on modeling radiative properties of thin particulate films and interaction of nanometer or micrometer sized particles.  Moreover, we are also interested design of materials containing micrometer or nanometer sized particles. 

### Inverse design of thermal systems and materials: 
Thermal processing systems are built to satisfy conditions demanded by various processes such as semiconductor rapid thermal processing (RTP). The semiconductor industry needs to tackle challenges on two fronts: The transistor size shrinks to be able to follow Moore’s law. Moreover, there is a demand from the industry to increase the processed wafer size from 300 mm to 450 mm in the near future to decrease the manufacturing costs. As a result precise thermal processing is very critical for sustaining high quality and yield; and the design and control of thermal processing systems have become a more challenging task than ever. The challenge lies in three coupled problems: the design and control of thermal processing equipment, and accurate thermal sensing necessary for the control.

### Design:
The design goal for such thermal equipment is to determine the “ideal” system with the optimal geometry, materials, configuration and the necessary input for the devices such as surface heaters, lamps, burners, fans or other cooling components used in the system to satisfy the needs of the process in a feasible manner. In general, the overall design process involves a number of design iterations of prototype building and testing, and any means of using numerical simulations techniques can help in reducing the number of iterations required and the associated costs. 

The boundary condition design is an inverse problem where a desired effect is known from the design objective and the necessary cause is sought. It is a well-known fact that the inverse problems result in ill-posed systems, where the solutions are unstable. The traditional way to solve such a design problem is to guess an input for the energy supply devices used in the system and then use mathematical models to check whether the desired conditions in the design environment are satisfied. The guessed value is modified based on the preceding results until the desired conditions are reached. Such trial-and-error methods are computationally expensive; moreover, it can be difficult to obtain smooth and physically reasonable or feasible solutions.

Inverse formulation can be implemented to estimate the unknown heater input required directly from the information available in the “design object” or the processed object. In the inverse formulation the system is represented by a system of discretized Fredholm equation of the first kind that is ill-posed. Mathematically, the system is unstable with no unique solution; whereas physically, the solution might not have any physically meaningful solution such as negative emissive powers. However, a solution with regularization of the system is possible using techniques such as truncated singular value decomposition (TSVD), modified TSVD, conjugate gradient method, and Tikhonov regularization.

### Control:
Once the system is designed, its operation must also be controlled to precisely follow the process recipe. Although necessary heater settings can be estimated using inverse formulation or optimization using mathematical models, some discrepancies will be observed between what is estimated by the model and how the physical system responds. These are due to; errors due to approximations in mathematical models, numerical error, error due to uncertainty in the properties used for the model. These must be corrected by some means of a control algorithm. We have shown that artificial neural networks can be used for controlling such a system. Robust control algorithms can also be employed.

### Remote Thermal Sensing:
In order to ensure precise control of the thermal processing system accurate monitoring of temperature is necessary. For semiconductor thermal processing non-intrusive, accurate, and precise temperature measurement metrologies that are capable of measuring up to ±1.5oC at 1000oC must be used for high precision thermal control. Light-pipe radiation thermometers (LPRT) have been used as an industrial tool to fulfill this task.  The errors associated with light-pipe measurements are great concerns across the industry. Modeling of the light-pipes has helped in understanding the signal transport process and errors associated with the light pipe measurements. However, due to the smaller size of the light-pipe sensor area with respect to the total system area, full scale modeling of such a system including the light pipe thermometer has not been possible due to the computational demand. We have overcome this problem to improve the computational efficiency using reverse Monte Carlo method that can be used to model the signal transport through a light-pipe thermometer used in a RTP system considering the spectral and angular dependent optical properties of the chamber and probe materials.

### Particle Characterization:

Non-intrusive characterization of nano-sized particles is critical in many different fields from emissions detection of combustion systems to biomedical or bio-energy systems applications.  Optical characterization techniques relying on measuring the light scattering pattern and predicting the particle or particle cluster’s characteristics has been one of the leading approaches.  Here, the characterization problem is formulated as an inverse problem that is solved by using optimization techniques.  Our research focuses on the problem and expands the existing state of the art by introducing advanced mathematical tools for improved characterization.  We have implemented global search algorithms, Bayesian inference and approximate Bayesian computation techniques for the solution of the problem.  Our research continues in this field. 

Aside from the research programs mentioned, we have been working on applications such as inverse design of system for renewable energy harvesting, and non-destructive fault detection in electronics packaging.  The research in these fields has been utilizing optimization/minimization or regularization for achieving a reasonable solution.  More details about the research in these fields are posted under the relevant pages that can be accessed through the links. 

### Related publications:

- Ericok OB, and Erturk H, "Inverse Characterization of Nanoparticle Clusters using Unpolarized Optical Scattering without Ex-Situ Measurements", Journal of Quantitative Spectroscopy and Radiative Transfer, vol.198, pp.117-129. (SCI) (link to article)
- Ericok OB, and Erturk H, 2016, “Chracterization of Nanoparticle Aggregates Using Bayesian Inference via Light Scattering Experiments”, 2016 ASME International Mechanical Engineering Conference and Exhibition, Phoenix, AZ. 
- Ericok OB, and Erturk H, 2016, "Inverse Characterization of Nanoparticle Clusters using Unpolarized Optical Scattering without Ex-Situ Measurements", 8th International Symposium on Radiative Transfer, June 5-10, Cappadocia, Turkey.
- Oner B, Erturk H, 2015, “Thermal Diffusion Tomography for Quantitative Non-destructive Characterization of Electronic Packages”, ASME International Technical Conference and Exhibition on Packaging and Integration of Electronic and Photonic Microsystems (InterPACK), July 6-9, 2015, San Francisco, CA, USA.
- Erturk, H., 2011, “Evaluation Of Image Reconstruction Algorithms For Non-Destructive Characterization Of Thermal Interfaces”, International Journal of Thermal Sciences, vol.50, no.6, pp.906-917.  (SCI)  (link to article)
- Erturk, H, “Non-Destructive Characterization of Multi-Layer Objects by Thermal Tomography”, Proceedings of 2009 ASME International Mechanical Engineering Conference and Exhibition, Lake Buena Vista, FL, USA, November 13-19, 2009. 
- Erturk, H., 2009, “Characterization of Electronic Packages using Thermal Diffusion Tomography”, Proceedings of 2009 ASME Heat Transfer Conference, San Francisco, CA, USA, July 19-23, 2009.
- Erturk, H. and Howell, J. R., 2010, “Efficient Signal Transport Model for Remote Thermometry in Full Scale Systems”, IEEE Transactions on Semiconductor Manufacturing, vol.23, no.1., pp.132-140.  (SCI) (link to article)
- Erturk, H. and Howell, J. R., 2008, “Complete Modeling of a Light-pipe Radiation Thermometer in a Rapid Thermal Processing System”, Proceedings of 2008 ASME International Mechanical Engineering Conference and Exhibition, Boston, MA, USA.
- Erturk, H., Ezekoye, O. A., and Howell, J. R., 2008, “Reverse Monte Carlo Modeling of Signal Transport in Light-pipe Radiation Thermometers”, Proceedings of 2008 ASME Summer Heat Transfer Conference, Jacksonville, FL, USA.
- Erturk, H., Gamba, M., Ezekoye, O.A., and Howell, J.R., 2008, “Validation of Inverse Boundary Condition Design in a Thermometry Test Bed”, Journal of Quantitative Spectroscopy and Radiative Transfer, vol. 109, pp.317-326. (SCI) (link to article)
- Erturk, H., Ezekoye, O. A., and Howell, J. R., 2004, “Boundary Condition Design to Heat a Moving Object at Uniform Transient Temperature”, ASME Journal Manufacturing Science and Engineering, vol. 126, pp.619-626. (SCI) (link to article)
- Howell, J. R., Daun, K. J., Erturk, H., Gamba, M. and Hosseini Sarvari, M., 2003, “The Use of Inverse Methods for the Design and Control of Radiant Sources”, JSME International Journal, Series B, Fluid and Thermal Engineering, vol. 46, pp.470-478. (SCI-E) (link to article)
- Daun, K. J., Erturk, H. and Howell, J. R., 2002, “Inverse Methods for High Temperature Systems”, Arabian Journal for Science and Engineering, vol. 27, no 2C, pp. 3-48.  (SCI-E) (link to article)
- Erturk, H., Ezekoye, O. A., and Howell, J. R., 2002, “The Application of An Inverse Formulation In The Design of Boundary Conditions for Transient Radiating Enclosures”, ASME Journal of Heat Transfer, vol.124, pp. 1095-1102. (SCI) (link to article)
- Erturk, H., Ezekoye, O. A., and Howell, J. R., 2002, “Comparison of Three Regularized Solution Techniques in a Three-Dimensional Inverse Radiation Problem”, Journal of Quantitative Spectroscopy and Radiative Transfer, vol.73, pp. 307-316. (SCI) (link to article)
- Gamba, M., Erturk, H., Ezekoye, O. A., and Howell, J. R., 2002, “Modeling of a Radiative RTP-type Furnace through an Inverse Design: Mathematical Model and Experimental Results”, Proceedings of 2002 ASME International Mechanical Engineering Conference and Exhibition, New Orleans, LA.
- Erturk, H., Gamba, M., Ezekoye, O. A., and Howell, J. R., 2002, “Design of A Rapid Thermal Processing Chamber Using an Inverse Formulation”, Proceedings of 2002 ASME/AIAA Joint Thermophysics and Heat Transfer Conference, St. Louis, MO.
- Erturk, H., Ezekoye, O. A., and Howell, J. R., 2002, “The Use of Inverse Formulation in Design and Control of Transient Radiant Systems”, Proceedings of 2002 International Heat Transfer Conference, Grenoble, France.
-  Erturk, H., Ezekoye, O. A., and Howell, J. R., 2001, “Inverse Design of a Three-Dimensional Furnace with Moving Design Environment”, Proceedings of 2001 ASME International Mechanical Engineering Conference and Exhibition, New York City, NY.
- Erturk, H., Ezekoye, O. A., and Howell, J. R., 2001, “Comparison of Three Regularized Solution Techniques in a Three-Dimensional Inverse Radiation Problem”, Proceedings of ICHMT Third International Symposium on Radiative Heat Transfer, Antalya, Turkey, eds. M. P. Mengüç and N. Selçuk, Begell House, New York.
- Erturk, H., Ezekoye, O. A., and Howell, J. R., 2001, “Inverse Transient Boundary Condition Estimation Problem in a Radiating Enclosure”, Proceedings of 2001 ASME National Heat Transfer Conference, Anaheim, CA.
- Erturk, H., Ezekoye, O. A., and Howell, J. R., 2000, “Inverse Solution of Radiative Transfer in Two-Dimensional Irregularly Shaped Enclosures”, Proceedings of 2000 ASME International Mechanical Engineering Conference and Exhibition, Orlando, FL.
- Erturk, H., Arınç, F. and Selçuk, N., 1997, “Accuracy of Monte Carlo Method Re-Examined on a Box-Shaped Furnace Problem”, Proceedings of Second International Symposium on Radiative Heat Transfer, Kusadasi, Turkey, ed. M. P. Mengüç, Begell House, New York.
